>>> ON THIS EDITION FOR SUNDAY
DECEMBER 1st, A TRAIN CRASH WITH
MULTIPLE FATALITIES IN NEW YOR
CITY
AN UPDATE ON THE STATE O
HEALTHCARE.GOV
PLUS, THE PENSION CRISIS I
ILLINOIS
WHAT IT MEANS FOR IT THE REST OF
THE NATION
>> THERE'S PROBABLY A LOT OF
LESSONS TO BE LEARNED FROM THE
THINGS THAT ILLINOIS HAS DON
WRONG HERE
>> AND JEFFREY BROWN LOOKS A
IMAGES OF WAR, BEFORE, DURING,
AND AFTER.
NEXT ON "PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
>>> GOOD EVENING
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
THE WHITE HOUSE SAID TODAY IT'
MET ITS GOAL OF IMPROVIN
HEALTHCARE.GOV SO THAT MILLION
OF AMERICANS CAN BUY HEALT
INSURANCE.
THE ADMINISTRATION'S PROGRES
AND PERFORMANCE REPORT SAID TH
WEBSITE NOW WORKS SMOOTHLY FOR
THE VAST MAJORITY OF PEOPL
USING IT
IT CALLED THE SITE STABLE 90% OF
THE TIME AND SAID IT IS NO
OPERATING AT ITS INTENDE
CAPACITY WITH PAGES FAILING TO
LOAD LESS THAN 1% OF THE TIME.
BUT REPUBLICAN SENATOR BOB
CORKER WARNED THAT THOSE TRYIN
TO SIGN UP FOR HEALTH CARE PLANS
OFFERED ON THE GOVERNMEN
WEBSITE WILL ENCOUNTER WHAT HE
CALLED A LOT OF NEGATIVE
SURPRISES AND SOME INSURANCE
BROKERS SAY THEY'RE STILL HAVING
DIFFICULTY WHEN IS THEY ACCESS
THE SITE
THE ADMINISTRATION'S GOAL IS T
SIGN UP 7 MILLION PEOPLE
AS OF FOUR WEEKS AGO, ONLY
106,000 HAD SIGNED UP.
THE VAST MAJORITY OF THEM ON THE
STATE HEALTH CARE WEBSITES
THE DEADLINE TO SIGN UP IS
DECEMBER 23rd.
THERE WAS A FATAL COMMUTER TRAIN
DERAILMENT IN NEW YORK CITY THIS
MORNING.
AUTHORITIES SAY AT LEAST FOU
PEOPLE WERE KILLED AND DOZEN
MORE INJURED WHEN SEVERAL CARS
OF THE TRAIN WENT OFF THE TRACKS
AND CAME TO REST RIGHT BESID
THE HUDSON RIVER
INVESTIGATORS FROM THE NATIONA
TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD WERE
DISPATCHED TO THE SCENE TO
INVESTIGATE THE CAUSE OF THE
ACCIDENT
THE DERAILMENT OCCURRED AT A BIG
CURVE IN THE TRACK, REQUIRIN
THE TRAIN OPERATOR TO GO SLOWLY.
AUTHORITIES SAY THE TRAIN HA
DATA RECORDERS THAT SHOULD
REVEAL HOW FAST IT WAS TRAVELING
WHEN THE ACCIDENT OCCURRED A
7:20 ON A SUNDAY MORNING
THE FIRE COMMISSIONER SAID ON
WORKDAY, FULLY OCCUPIED, I
WOULD HAVE BEEN A TREMENDOUS
DISASTER
>>> TWO TOP MEMBERS OF CONGRES
ARE WARNING THAT THE TERRO
THREAT AGAINST THE UNITED STATES
HAS INCREASED DESPITE TH
KILLING OF OSAMA BIN LADEN AND
AMERICAN DRONE ATTACKS THAT HAVE
KILLED OTHER HIGH-LEVEL AL QAEDA
LEADERS.
THE HEAD OF THE SENATE
INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE
CALIFORNIA DEMOCRAT DIAN
FEINSTEIN AND THE CHAIRMAN O
THE HOUSE INTELLIGENCE
COMMITTEE, MICHIGAN REPUBLICAN
MIKE RODGERS, WARNED THAT AL
QAEDA'S WILLINGNESS TO STAGE
SMALLER ATTACKS AND ITS ACCESS
TO MORE POWERFUL AND MOR
DIFFICULT TO DETECT BOMBS MAKE
THE NATION MORE VULNERABLE
RODGERS TOLD CNN, QUOTE, PEOPL
THINK WE HAVE THIS THING BEAT,
AND THAT'S JUST KNOT THE CASE.
OVERSEAS, THERE WAS ANOTHE
MASSIVE PROTEST TODAY IN THE
UKRAINE, WHICH IS TORN BETWEEN
EAST AND WEST.
AN ESTIMATED 100,000 PEOPLE,
MANY CHANTING "REVOLUTION,
DEFIED A GOVERNMENT BAN AN
RALLIED ON INDEPENDENCE SQUARE
IN THE CAPITAL CITY OF KIEV.
THERE WAS RENEWED VIOLENCE WHE
SOME TRIED TO STORM A GOVERNMENT
BUILDING
RIOT POLICE RESPONDED BY FIRIN
TEAR GAS AND BEATING SOME OF THE
PROTESTERS
THE DEMONSTRATORS ARE DEMANDIN
THAT THE UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT
MOVE FORWARD ON A DEAL THA
WOULD INTEGRATE THEM WITH TH
EUROPEAN UNION
RUSSIA HAS ALREADY BANNED SOME
UKRAINIAN IMPORTS AND IS
THREATENING TRADE SANCTIONS IF
THE DEAL IS PUT INTO PLACE
>>> THERE WAS ANOTHER WAVE O
PROTESTS IN THAILAND
POLICE IN BANGKOK USED WATER
CANNONS AT DEMONSTRATORS WHO
TRIED TO OCCUPY GOVERNMENT
OFFICES AND TELEVISION STATIONS.
THEY'RE DEMANDING THE PRIM
MINISTER RESIGN.
SHE HAD TRIED TO PUSH THROUGH
LAW THAT WOULD HAVE GRANTE
AMNESTY FOR HER BROTHER.
HE WAS OVERTHROWN AFTER BEIN
ACCUSED OF CORRUPTION AND ABUS
OF POWER
AUTHORITIES FEAR THE PROTEST
COULD DAMAGE THE NATION'
ECONOMY, PARTICULARLY ITS $6
BILLION A YEAR TOURISM INDUSTRY.
>>> IT WAS A DAY OF MOURNING I
SCOTLAND TODAY, A DAY AFTER
POLICE HELICOPTER CRASHED INTO A
PUB, KILLING AT LEAST EIGH
PEOPLE
OUR BRITISH PARTNER ITV REPORT
FROM GLASGOW
>> ACROSS SCOTLAND, PEOPLE PAI
THEIR RESPECTS TODAY
A MINUTE SILENCE WAS HELD BEFORE
THE SCOTTISH CUP MATCH WIT
CELTIC
♪♪
AND A SPECIAL SERVICE WAS HELD
AT GLASGOW CATHEDRAL, JUST A FEW
HUNDRED YARDS FROM THE STREET OF
THE CASH
THE POLICE CHAPLAIN HAS BEEN
SUPPORTING BEREAVED OFFICERS AND
THOSE WHO HAVE WORKED LONG
DIFFICULT HOURS HERE
>> WE HAVE SEEN THE COURAGE OF
GLASGOW.
WE'VE SEEN THE SADNESS
AND THEN WE'LL SEE THAT DRIV
AND THAT PASSION AND THAT LIFE
AND THAT HUMOR COME BACK TO TH
FORCE.
>> WITH ALL REAL HOPE OF RESCU
NOW GONE, A RECOVERY OPERATION
IS UNDERWAY AT THE BAR I
GLASGOW.
PIECE BY CAREFUL PIECE, TH
WRECKAGE OF THE POLICE
HELICOPTER IS BEING REMOVED, BUT
IT'S A DELICATE PROCESS.
MUCH OF THE BUILDING HAS
COLLAPSED AND BODIES STILL LIE
INSIDE
BANDAGED AND BRUISED, GARY WAS
INSIDE THE BAR WHEN THE ROOF
CAME DOWN.
CLEARLY STILL SHOCKED, H
RETURNED TO THE SCENE TODAY.
>> I JUST REMEMBER WAKING UP
BEING PULLED OUT BY A FIREMAN.
JUST CAN'T REMEMBER NOTHIN
AFTER THAT
>> POLICE SCOTLAND HAV
CONFIRMED THEIR CONSTABL DIED IN
THIS CRASH, AS DID THEIR
CIVILIAN PILOT
JOHN, ON THE LEFT, IS THOUGHT TO
HAVE BEEN IN THE PUB AT TH
TIME
HE'S STILL MISSING
AS IS 44-YEAR-OLD MARCO PREY
THE BODY OF GARY ARTHUR, ON TH
RIGHT, HAS BEEN RECOVERED FROM
THE BAR.
COLLEAGUES WAVED HIM OFF FRO
WORK ON FRIDAY
HE TOLD THEM HE WAS GOING FOR
DRINK.
THE EMERGENCY SERVICES WON'T GET
PROPER ACCESS TO THE BUILDIN
UNTIL THE HELICOPTER'S FUSELAG
IS REMOVED
THEY DON'T KNOW WHAT THEY'LL
FIND
THEY CAN'T RULE OUT TH
POSSIBILITY THAT THE DEATH TOL
MAY YET RISE
THIS WHOLE DREADFUL EPISODE HA
GALVANIZED GLASGOW IN A WAY.
OUT OF THE DISASTER, SOME REAL
HEROES HAVE EMERGED.
NOT JUST THE EMERGENCY SERVICES,
BUT THE PEOPLE INSIDE THE PU
WHO LED EACH OTHER TO SAFETY AND
THE PASSERS BY WHO RAN TOWARDS
DANGER TO HELP
THE CITY IS RIGHTLY PROUD OF
THAT
ITV NEWS, GLASGOW.
>>> IT IS WORLD A.I.D.S. DAY
TODAY.
A GIANT RED RIBBON WAS DISPLAYED
ON THE NORTH PORTICO OF TH
WHITE HOUSE.
HEALTH EXPERTS ESTIMATE 1.
MILLION AMERICANS HAVE HIV
IT'S BELIEVED MORE THAN 25
MILLION PEOPLE AROUND THE WORL
DIED FROM THE VIRUS IN THE
QUARTER CENTURY BEGINNING IN THE
VERY EARLY '80s, MAKING IT ONE
OF THE DEADLIEST PANDEMICS I
HISTORY.
♪♪
>>> TONIGHT, WE CONTINUE OUR
COVERAGE OF THE PENSION PERIL, A
PUBLIC TELEVISION INITIATIVE
THAT WILL SHINE A LIGHT ON THE
MORE THAN $1 TRILLION SHORTFAL
IN FUNDING FOR PUBLIC EMPLOYEES'
RETIREMENT BENEFIT
WE'LL EXPLAIN WHAT IT MEANS FO
RETIREES AND TAXPAYER, EXAMINE
HOW IT MIGHT THREATEN THE FISCAL
STABILITY OF CITIES AND STATES
AND REPORT ON PROPOSED
SOLUTIONS.
THIS WEEK WE FOCUS ON NE
EFFORTS ON PENSION REFORM IN
ILLINOIS, THE STATE WITH THE
WORTH FUNDED PUBLIC EMPLOYEE
PENSION SYSTEM IN THE NATION
ESTIMATES ARE THAT IT IS
UNDERFUNDED BY $100 BILLION.
THE SITUATION SO SERIOUS THA
ACCORDING TO ONE RECENT REPORT
ABOUT 20 CENTS OF EVERY TAXPAYER
DOLLAR IN ILLINOIS IS NOW USED
TO PAY FOR PENSIONS.
BUT ON WEDNESDAY, STAT
LEGISLATORS ANNOUNCED
TENTATIVE BIPARTISAN DEAL TO
ADDRESS THE PROBLEM.
FOR MORE ABOUT ALL THIS, WE'RE
JOINED FROM CHICAGO BY SAR
BURNETT.
SHE'S WITH THE ASSOCIATED PRES
AND HAS BEEN REPORTING THI
STORY.
WHAT'S THE FRAMEWORK OF THIS
POTENTIAL DEAL
>> WELL, THE BIGGEST CHANGE IS
THAT IT AFFECTS THE COST O
LIVING INCREASES, THOSE ANNUAL
INCREASES THAT RETIREES RECEIV
ON THEIR PENSION BENEFITS TO
KEEP UP WITH THE COST OF LIVING.
SO IT WILL REDUCE THOS
INCREASES FROM THE CURRENT
LEVEL.
SOME OF THE WORKERS WHO HAVE
WORKED THE LONGEST AND RECEIVE
THE SMALLEST SALARIES WILL
CONTINUE TO GET INCREASES AT THE
LEVEL THEY DO CURRENTLY, BUT
MOST EVERYONE ELSE WILL SE
THEIR BENEFITS GROW AT A MUC
SLOWER RATE.
OTHER THAN THAT, IT'S RAISIN
THE RETIREMENT AGE AND MAKIN
SOME OTHER CHANGES IN HOW TH
STATE DIRECTS MONEY TO THOSE
FUNDS.
>> SO PEOPLE HAVE BEEN CRITICA
ABOUT THIS PROCESS AS IT'S BEE
HAPPENING FROM BOTH SIDES.
SOME CONSERVATIVES SAY THESE
CUTS DON'T GO FAR ENOUGH AND
SOME OF THE LABOR UNIONS SAY
THIS IS ALMOST UNCONSTITUTIONA
AND TOO DEEP A CUT
>> YES, EXACTLY.
THEY BELIEVE THIS PLAN I
UNCONSTITUTIONAL
THE LABOR UNIONS HAVE ALREAD
SAID THAT IF IT PASSES THE
LEGISLATURE ON TUESDAY, THEY'L
FILE A LAWSUIT TO HAVE IT THROWN
OUT.
THEIR BELIEF IS THAT THESE
PUBLIC WORKERS AND THESE
RETIREES SPENT THEIR CAREERS
PAYING INTO RETIREMENT SYSTEMS
HOLDING UP THEIR END OF TH
BARGAIN WHILE THE STATE DID NOT.
THEN IT'S UNFAIR FOR THEM TO CUT
THEIR BENEFITS TO THE DEGREE
THEY'RE BEING CUT.
THE LABOR UNIONS DID PROPOSE A
COMPROMISED DEAL EARLIER IN TH
YEAR, BUT IT COULDN'T GE
THROUGH THE HOUSE BECAUS
LAWMAKERS THERE DIDN'T THINK I
SAVED ENOUGH MONEY
>> AND SO HOW UNIQUE IS TH
ILLINOIS STATE CONSTITUTION?
ARE THERE -- IS THIS A CASE THAT
OTHER STATES ARE GOING TO STUD
AND SAY, WAIT, YOU KNOW WHAT, WE
HAVE A VERY SIMILAR CLAUSE
THE OUTCOME MATTERS TO US AS
WELL
>> MANY STATES HAV
CONSTITUTIONAL PROTECTIONS
YOU'VE SEEN MANY, MANY OTHER
STATES HAVE ALREADY DEALT WITH
THESE PROBLEMS AND ARE FIGHTIN
THEM OUT IN THE COURTS RIGHT
NOW.
WHAT I'VE BEEN TOLD IS THA
ILLINOIS'S CONSTITUTIONA
PROTECTION IS A PARTICULARLY
ROCK-SOLID ONE COMPARED TO HOW
THE LANGUAGE IS WRITTEN INTO
SOME OTHER STATES.
SO IT MAY NOT BE A
APPLES-TO-APPLES COMPARISON, BUT
CERTAINLY PEOPLE ARE GOING TO BE
WATCHING THIS ONE BECAUSE IT I
SUCH A HUGE CASE AND IT IS S
CRITICAL TO THE FUTURE OF TH
STATE'S FINANCES
>> AND WHAT ABOUT THE FACT THA
THIS IS A HEAVILY DEMOCRATIC
STATE?
IF THIS BIPARTISAN DEAL CAN BE
AGREED ON AND REALLY CHALLENGE
WHERE THE LABOR UNIONS SIT, CA
THAT HAVE LONGER TERM OR WIDER
IMPLICATIONS FOR THE LABOR
MOVEMENT IN THE U.S.
>> WELL, THAT IS ONE OF TH
THINGS THAT WE'VE BEEN LOOKING
AT
YOU KNOW, LABOR HAS TAKE AN HI
IN SOME SORT OF SURPRISING
PLACES LIKE MICHIGAN IN RECENT
YEARS.
YOU KNOW, CERTAINLY THIS WOULD
BE A BLOW TO THE LABOR UNIONS.
THEY HAVE HAD A PRETTY AMICABL
RELATIONSHIP WITH BOTH
REPUBLICANS AND DEMOCRATS UP T
THIS POINT
BUT IT WILL SET OFF WHAT I
BELIEVE WILL BE SOME PRETT
HOSTILE INTERACTIONS BETWEEN THE
UNIONS AND THESE LAWMAKERS GOING
FORWARD.
>> SO WHAT IMPACT DOES THIS SORT
OF A CREDIT CRUNCH HAVE FOR TH
STATE OF ILLINOIS AND TH
TAXPAYERS?
>> WELL, THE REPEATED FAILURES
BY THE LAWMAKERS TO COME UP WITH
A SOLUTION FOR THIS PROBLEM HA
LED THE CREDIT RATING AGENCIES
TO DOWNGRADE ILLINOIS'S RATING
MULTIPLE TIMES OVER THE LAST
SEVERAL YEARS.
ILLINOIS NOW HAS THE LOWES
CREDIT RATING OF ANY STATE I
THE NATION
THAT MEAN WHEN IS THEY GO TO
SELL BONDS, BORROW MONEY, FO
CAPITAL PROJECTS, ROADS, THING
IT LIKE THAT, TAXPAYERS IN
ILLINOIS ARE PAYING A HIGHER
INTEREST RATE ON THAT BORROWED
MONEY THAN TAXPAYERS IN AN
OTHER STATE.
AT THE SAME TIME, IN ORDER T
MAKE THESE PAYMENTS EACH YEAR,
AS YOU MENTIONED IN THE INTRO,
THE STATE IS PUTTING ABOUT 2
CENTS OF EVERY DOLLAR INTO THE
PENSION FUNDS.
THAT'S MONEY THAT COULD BE GOING
TO SCHOOLS
THERE ARE SOCIAL SERVICE
AGENCIES THAT HAVE NOT BEEN PAID
WHAT THE STATE OWES THEM FOR
MONTHS AT A TIME
THEY'VE GOT -- I THINK IT'
CLOSE TO $8 BILLION BACKLOG OF
UNPAID BILLS SITTING I
SPRINGFIELD, WAITING TO BE PAI
BECAUSE THERE ISN'T MONEY TO D
IT
>> SO WHAT ARE THE CHANCES
NOW, THIS COMING WEEK WE'R
GOING TO HAVE THIS BE SORT O
PROPOSED MAYBE IN BOTH SECTIONS,
THE HOUSE AND THE SENATE IN TH
STATE LEGISLATURE?
>> CORRECT
WE'RE EXPECTING THIS TO MOVE
FAIRLY QUICKLY ON TUESDAY.
THE HOUSE AND THE SENATE WIL
BOTH COME IN, AND BOTH CHAMBER
CAN ADDRESS IT ON THAT DAY
IT HAS THE SUPPORT OF TH
DEMOCRATIC AND THE REPUBLICA
LEADERS IN BOTH CHAMBERS
AND THIS IS THE FIRST TIME THA
THERE HAS BEEN ANY PENSION
PROPOSAL
THERE HAVE BEEN PREVIOUS
PROPOSALS THAT THE TWO CHAMBER
COULDN'T AGREE ON OR THE TWO
PARTIES COULDN'T AGREE ON.
THIS IS THE FIRST ONE THAT HAS
THE SUPPORT FROM ALL FOUR OF
THOSE LEADERS, WHICH MAKES IT,
YOU KNOW, PEOPLE BELIEVE THIS IS
THE BEST CHANCE YET.
>> OKAY.
SO STEPPING BACK FOR A SECOND,
IS THERE A LESSON THAT OTHER
STATES CAN LEARN IN PREVENTING
THEMSELVES FROM GETTING IN SUC
AN HUNDRED-BILLION-DOLLAR MESS
>> YES, THERE'S PROBABLY A LOT
OF LESSONS TO BE LEARNED FRO
THE THINGS THAT ILLINOIS HAS
DONE WRONG HERE.
FIRST OF ALL, THE LEGISLATURES
GOING BACK FOR DECADES
REPUBLICAN AND
DEMOCRAT-CONTROLLE
LEGISLATURES, FOR YEARS AN
YEARS DID NOT PUT IN THEIR
REQUIRED CONTRIBUTION INTO THESE
PENSION FUNDS.
THEY AGREED TO CERTAIN BENEFITS,
AND THEN INSTEAD OF PUTTING TH
MONEY AWAY TO PAY FOR THEM, THEY
USED THAT MONEY FOR SOMETHIN
ELSE
NOW, OBVIOUSLY, THE UNFUNDED
LIABILITY HAS GROWN TO THE POINT
WHERE THAT CANNOT CONTINUE ANY
LONGER
>> ALL RIGHT, SARA BURNETT FRO
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
THANKS SO MUCH
>> THANK YOU
♪♪
>>> WE RETURN NOW TO A
EXAMINATION OF WAR
THE EXHIBIT "WAR PHOTOGRAPHY" IS
CURRENTLY AT THE BROOKLYN MUSEUM
HERE IN NEW YORK
JEFFREY BROWN REPORTS.
>> A MARINE IN AFGHANISTAN HAS A
CLOSE CALL WITH TALIBA
FIGHTERS
A REPUBLICAN MILITIA WOMAN
TRAINING ON THE BEACH OUTSID
BARCELONA IN THE SPANISH CIVIL
WAR.
A BOSNIAN SOLDIER STANDS ON
MASS GRAVE OUTSIDE HIS DESTROYED
HOME
A CLASS PHOTO OF YOUNG CHILDREN,
MANY LATER KILLED IN ARGENTINA'S
DIRTY WAR.
AND SO FAMILIAR NOW, A JET
CRASHING INTO THE WORLD TRAD
CENTER ON SEPTEMBER 11, 2001
THEY'RE IMAGES FROM 165 YEARS OF
WAR, BROADLY DEFINED TO CAPTUR
WHAT HAPPENS BEFORE, DURING, AND
AFTER BATTLE
PART OF A WIDE-RANGING
EXHIBITION TITLED "WAR
PHOTOGRAPHY: IMAGES OF ARMED
CONFLICT AND ITS AFTERMATH."
NOW AT WASHINGTON'S GALLERY OF
ART, IT WAS DEVELOPED AND OPENED
AT THE HOUSTON MUSEUM OF FIN
ARTS BY ANN TUCKER
>> I THOUGHT THERE WAS A HUMAN
STORY TO BE TOLD THROUGH THE
EYES OF PHOTOGRAPHERS ABOUT TH
FULL ASPECT OF WAR
WHEN PEOPLE TALKED ABOUT WAR
PHOTOGRAPHY, IT WAS EITHER
FIGHTING OR DEATH.
WE JUST THOUGHT THERE WAS A MUCH
GREATER STORY, AND WE WANTED T
OPEN THE DISCUSSION UP
>> MANY FAMOUS IMAGES ARE HERE
ROBERT KAPPA'S 1944 D-DAY PHOT
OF A GI STRUGGLING THROUGH THE
SURF AT OMAHA BEACH.
THIS TIMES SQUARE SHOT OF
SOLDIER KISSING A WOMAN.
AND THE 1972 PHOTO OF VIETNAMESE
CHILDREN RUNNING FROM A NAPALM
BOMBING.
>> THE TORPEDOS GOING INTO PEARL
HARBOR
I CAN STILL CRY WHEN I SEE THA
PICTURE.
>> REALLY?
YOU SEE IT FROM ABOVE.
>> YOU SEE THE TORPEDOS GOIN
INTO BATTLESHIP ROW.
AND YOU THINK ABOUT THE PEOPLE
WHO ARE SITTING ON THEIR BUNKS
WRITING A LETTER HOME, GETTING
DRESSED FOR CHURCH AND THEY'RE
GOING TO DIE
THEN THERE ARE PICTURES THAT
FEATURE AN INDIVIDUAL AND YO
GRIEVE FOR THAT INDIVIDUAL
OR YOU WONDER WHAT HAPPENED TO
THEM
YOU SEE THE SOLDIER BY CAROLIN
COLE WAITING TO GO INTO BATTLE
WITH ALL OF HIS WAR PAINT ON
YOU CAN'T HELP BUT WONDER, DID
HE SURVIVE
YOU KNOW
IS HE HOME
IS HE OKAY
>> THE EXHIBITION IS ORGANIZED
BY THEMES THAT CROSS THROUGH
WARS AND TIME, INCLUDING
RECRUITMENT.
SEEN HERE THROUGH THE EYES O
AUSTRALIANS HEADING OFF FO
BATTLE DURING WORLD WAR I,
CAPTURED BY JOSIAH BARNES.
EXECUTION, A SHIRT WON BY TH
EMPEROR IN 1867.
AND HOMECOMING AND MEMORIALS
ASHLEY GILBERTSON CAPTURES THE
CHILDHOOD ROOMS OF AMERICA
SOLDIERS KILLED IN IRAQ AN
AFGHANISTAN.
PORTRAITS OF LIVES THAT ARE NO
MORE
ANN TUCKER SAYS SHE AND HER TEAM
SAW PATTERNS TO WARS AND THEIR
PORTRAYAL.
>> THE PATTERNS WERE, FO
INSTANCE, PHOTOGRAPHS OF WOMEN
WEEPING ON A GRAVE
WE ONLY HAVE ONE IN TH
EXHIBITION, BUT WE SAW HUNDREDS.
SOMEBODY WITH A PROSTHESIS
THERE'S ONLY ONE IN TH
EXHIBITION, BUT WE SAW HUNDREDS.
PEOPLE IN MILITARY FORMATION
PEOPLE IN TRANSPORT.
WE BEGAN TO LOOK AT THES
RECURRING TYPES OF PICTURES AN
REALIZE THAT THESE WERE TH
STAGES OF WAR.
>> ANOTHER THEME, WAITING, THE
IN BETWEEN MOMENTS BEFORE TH
BATTLE BEGINS, AS IN THI
PHOTOGRAPH OF ITALIAN WOME
AMBULANCE DRIVERS KNITTING
>> IT IS MOMENTARY CALM BECAUS
THE FATALITY RATE FOR THES
WOMEN AMBULANCE DRIVERS IN ITALY
WAS VERY HIGH.
OUR REASON FOR PUTTING IT IN THE
EXHIBITION IS PRECISELY TO SHO
THOSE QUIET MOMENTS AND ALSO T
SHOW THESE ESSENTIALLY HEROI
WOMEN WHO ARE CIVILIANS OR
MILITARY WHO ARE PART OF THE
STORY.
>> THIS PHOTO JOURNALIST HAS
COVERED THE WAR IN AFGHANISTAN
SINCE 2006
HIS PORTRAIT OF THIS MARIN
GUNNERY SERGEANT WAS TAKEN AFTER
A MUDDY PATROL IN 125-DEGREE
HEAT THROUGH AN AREA FILLED WITH
IEDs
IT BECAME A SIGNATURE IMAGE FO
THE EXHIBITION
>> EVERY DAY I WOULD GO OUT WITH
THESE MARINES.
INSTEAD OF TAKING PHOTOGRAPHS OF
THEM ON PATROL, WHICH I HAD BEEN
DOING FOR YEARS, I WOULD GET T
KNOW THEM AND TALK TO THEM
I WANTED TO KNOW THEM SO I COULD
PHOTOGRAPH THEM AND PASS ON THAT
EXPERIENCE TO THE VIEWERS.
I REALLY WANTED A PHOTOGRAPH
THAT CONFRONTED YOU AND BROUGH
YOU TO TASK TO UNDERSTAND TH
PSYCHOLOGY OF WHAT THE
EXPERIENCE OF WAR IS
>> WILL MICHAELS SAYS WORKS LIKE
THIS ARE A MIRROR ON TO TH
SUBJECT AND THE PHOTOGRAPHER
>> I'M A BIG BELIEVER THAT
ESPECIALLY WITH MANY OF TH
PORTRAITS THAT IT'S A DOUBLE
PORTRAIT
IT'S A PORTRAIT JUST AS MUCH
ABOUT THE PERSON IN THE PICTUR
AS THE PHOTOGRAPHER HIS OR
HERSELF.
IT'S THE PHOTOGRAPHER'S CHOICE
THAT MADE THE PORTRAIT A
POWERFUL AS IT IS.
THE BETTER THE PORTRAIT, THE
MORE UNIVERSAL IT BECOMES.
IT BECOMES EVERY SOLDIER
IT BECOMES NOT A SPECIFIC ONE.
IT BECOMES ABOUT THE WHOLE
EXPERIENCE
>> SOME OF THE IMAGES HERE ARE
HORRIFIC
A SIGN AT ENTRANCE WARNING
VIEWERS IS A REMINDER THAT THE
PORTRAYAL OF DEAD BODIES AND
OTHER IMAGES HAVE OFTEN BEEN
DIFFICULT FOR THE PUBLIC, TH
NEWS MEDIA, INCLUDING OU
PROGRAM, AND FOR GOVERNMEN
OFFICIALS.
ANOTHER FRAUGHT ISSUE IN THE
HISTORY OF WAR PHOTOGRAPHY, TH
SHEER BEAUTY OF IMAGES THA
PORTRAY DEATH AND HORROR
THE BALANCING OF DOCUMENTATION
AND AESTHETICS
TUCKER EXPLAINS HER APPROACH
>> IF THE BEAUTY BRINGS SOMEBODY
TO ENGAGE WITH THAT PICTURE,
THEN IT'S ESSENTIAL.
SO YOU FEEL THIS PUSH-PULL T
THE AESTHETICS AND THE HORROR,
AND THAT WAR WITHIN YOURSELF I
FRUITFUL TO YOUR THINKING MORE
ABOUT THE PICTURE.
>> THE EXHIBITION OFFERS
VISITORS THEIR CHANCE TO SHARE
THEIR OWN REACTIONS IN A
REFLECTION ROOM.
JUST PART OF THE CONTINUIN
EXCHANGE AMONG WARRIORS,
PHOTOGRAPHERS, AND VIEWERS
CAPTURING THE HORROR, BEAUTY
BOREDOM, BRAVERY, AND SO MUC
MORE OF WAR.
>> THE EXHIBIT IN BROOKLYN RUN
UNTIL FEBRUARY 2nd
♪♪
FURTHER EXAMINE THE PHOTOGRAPH
FROM THE EXHIBIT
VISIT NEWSHOUR.PBS.ORG
>>> JOIN US ON AIR AND ONLIN
TOMORROW ON THE "NEWSHOUR.
WE'LL HAVE AN INTERVIEW WITH
LEAD U.S. NEGOTIATOR FOR
INTERNATIONAL TALKS ON IRAN AN
SYRIA.
THAT'S IT FOR THIS EDITION O
PBS "NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
THANKS FOR WATCHING.
♪♪